### Data Science Analytics for Data Driven Urban Planning :
### The Youth Economic Discomfort Index for Rome

Abstract — Today, a consistent segment of the world’s population lives in urban areas and this proportion will vastly increase in the next decades. Therefore, understanding the key trends in urbanization, likely to unfold over the coming years, is crucial to the implementation of sustainable urban strategies. In parallel, the daily amount of digital data produced will be expanding at an exponential rate during the following years. The analysis of various types of data sets and its derived applications have incredible potential across different crucial sectors such as healthcare, housing, transportation, energy and education. Nevertheless, in city development, architects and urban planners appear to rely mostly on traditional and analogical techniques of data collection. This paper investigates the prospective of data science field appearing to be a formidable resource to assist city managers in identifying strategies to enhance the social, economic and environmental sustainability of our urban areas. The collection of different new layers of information would definitely enhance planners' capabilities to comprehend more in-depth urban phenomena such as gentrification, land use definition, mobility or infrastructural critical issues. Specifically the research results correlate economic, commercial, demographic and housing data with the purpose of defining the youth economic discomfort index. The estimator provides insights regarding the economic disadvantage of citizens between 18 and 29 years old. The experimental set up selected the city of Rome as the testing ground of the whole investigation. The methodology aims at applying statistical and spatial analysis to construct a composite index supporting informed data-driven decisions for urban planning.
